---
layout: post
title:  "Amy Cooper, George Floyd, and Road Rage"
date:   2020-05-27 12:18:39 -0400
categories: jekyll update
tags: news
---

<h2> Foreword </h2>

I generally dislike chiming in on current events. Opinions are like assholes,
everyone's got one and no one thinks theirs stinks. I am no different and my
opinions are my own. I feel compelled to write about these recent events because
they are becoming so frequent and expected that the population is growing numb
to these injustices. There are two things that this post will not contain.
First, I will not have links to articles, images, or videos. You can Google all
that stuff yourself. Second, I will not cite references, if you do not trust
what I've written, then do your own research. 

This post is not to bash America, no nation is perfect, but America has a dark
history of oppression against minorities, women, and anybody who isn't a
heterosexual white male. In America, there has always been a social heirarchy
that has everything to do with the color of your skin and your gender.  Why this
country values attributes beyond an individual's control is beyond me.  I once
read a quote that really stuck with me. It goes something like "If you can
convince the lowest white man he’s better than the best colored man, he won’t
notice you’re picking his pocket. Hell, give him somebody to look down on, and
he’ll empty his pockets for you." This quote goes hand in hand with another that
goes something like "The news: super rich people paying rich people to tell
middle-class people to blame poor people". You can swap out "middle-class" and
"poor" for any number of societal factions but the truth remains, rather than
focusing on what we have the common, the lower and middle classes are frequently
at odds with one another. Often, these lines are drawn through hateful, racially
driven rhetoric. What really separates poor people from poor white people, is
that poor people accept their situation and try to better their lives. They know
the cards they've been dealt. Poor white people have a certain entitlement to
them, as if they deserve to be better off just because they are white. The
"Karen" mentality is especially fierce in poor white people.

<h3> My Own Experience </h3>

As an Asian American, I experienced two distinct forms of racism growing up. The
first was the blatant, in-your-face kind; let's call them type 1 racists. Where
they insult you to your face, insult your culture, your looks, anything they can
dig their teeth into. These individuals wear their racism on their sleeves and
with pride, and launch these jabs to stroke their own egos and their own sense
of worth. 

My family immigrated to Canada when I was 4, I had to learn English, I had to
learn the nuances of Western Culture. While this was a challenge, I never felt
alone. My family urged me to befriend other Asians, to be cautious of whites,
and to avoid blacks. Was this line of thinking racist? Absolutely. My family
knew only the information they were given and had access to, so what did they
know? They knew the incarceration rate of African Americans was
disproportionately high, they knew that during the LA race riots, black
protestors and looters specifically targeted Korean and other Asian owned
establishments, they heard stories from close friends about being mugged by
black people. They assimilated this knowledge and passed it on to a young,
impressionable child. The difference is that there was no hatred towards those
groups (except the Japanese but that is a story for another time).  I was not
taught to hate black people, I was taught to avoid them. I did not hate white
people, I was taught to be cautious around them. I was taught to stay in your
lane, obey the authorities, and you could live a peaceful and fulfilling life.

The second form of racism I encountered was much more insidious; let's call them
type 2 racists. These individuals will be friendly and cordial with you, they
will never utter a racist remark and on the surface, they appear to genuinely
respect you. However, it is these individuals that often harbor hatred with
twisted intentions. When my family first moved to America, we had to exchange
our currency. My parents were never very fluent in English and while their
choppy speaking skills and accent used to frustrate and embarass me, I now see
it as a badge of pride. To be willing to move to a new country and learn a new
language, essentially resetting your life so your children can have better
opportunities, that is heroic and bad ass. As an adult, I cannot express the
depths of my gratitude. During the currency exchange process, they interacted
with an individual who tried to pull a fast one on 'em. They quoted us an
exchange rate which we knew to be false. They thought that since my parents were
immigrants with poor language skills, they could be taken advantage of. My
father politely corrected the man and he acknowledged his error and apologized.
But there was no error, and the apology was meaningless. These are the racists
that my mother has frequently warned me about. These are the racists who come
out of the woodwork when Coronavirus first began spreading globally. These are
the racists who deny promotions and make hiring decisions based on race. These
are the racists who perpetuate a system of oppression against minorities. These
are the racists who perform mental gymnastics to justify the actions of Amy
Cooper and police officers who murder innocent (mostly black) civilians. They
can dress it up and present it any way they want, but in their heads and hearts,
they know what they're doing. 

And so, we arrive at Amy Cooper. Amy is definitely a type 2 racist. 

<h2> The Amy Cooper Incident </h2>

This past Memorial day weekend, a video went viral depicting a verbal
confrontation between a white woman and a black man. The white woman, Amy
Cooper, works as a portfolio manager for an asset management firm. She is
presumably upper-middle class in terms of socioeconomic standing, but in modern
day America, she is considered an upper tier individual sitting just below the
white male. What struck me about the confrontation was that her behavior
reminded me a lot of road rage. Road rage is an amazing phenomenom, we are
capable of feeling such hatred and rage against individuals who we do not even
know.  Individuals who, if we were to run into each other on an elevator, would
probably result in polite smalltalk, or at the very least, silence. However, in
the cocoon and comfort of our cars, we berate others for not following the rules
of the road, or for being selfish and inattentive, or for just not driving fast
enough! 

The events before the video recording began are now a matter of he-said,
she-said. Amy, presumably knowing this would be the case, felt that her position
on the social ladder would warrant acceptance of her version of events. This is
likely why Amy was so upset that Christian started recording; she knew her
version of the events could now be challenged by the truth. Had the
recording not been made or released, that very well may have been the case. Even
after the incident, as I read her recollection of the events, I am appalled at
her explanation and attempt to victimize herself, have you no decency? The video
clearly shows Amy, flustered for god knows what reason, acting more and more
erratically as Christian calmly records the events. So sure of herself and the
outcomes was she, that she lied to the police in an effort to bully an innocent
man. She threatens him with the call, then proceeds to make the call, a
disgusting shift in the register of her voice, perfectly prepared to convey her
panic and fear. Do you believe she is afraid? She is certainly not acting like
someone who is afraid. Fear triggers a fight-or-flight response, she did
neither. She was most likely insulted that a black man would have the gall to
tell her what to do. How dare he... I'll show him, I'll call the cops on him and
they will teach him a lesson... 

<h3> The Road Rage Analogy </h3>

This is kind of like when you are driving and someone honks the horn at you, you
can respond in a number of ways. The right response is probably to do nothing at
all, maybe you are in the wrong, and maybe they are, but the reasonable thing to
do is nothing at all. You can also honk back, the ole "no you" response and a
popular elementary school tactic. Another response would be to aggressively get
in front of them and slow down or brake check them.  That's obviously a bad move
but I've seen it before. Lastly, you could get in front of them, stop the car,
and get out to confront them. I omitted the response of just smashing their car
with yours to make my analogy more apt. When Christian Cooper asked her to leash
her dog and obey the rules of the public space, he was effectively honking her
to tell her to move at a light that turned green. Maybe she was on her phone,
maybe she just wasn't paying attention, but that's what he did. What she did,
rather than drive on, was get out of the car and start a confrontation. Not only
did she start a confrontation, she escalated it be involving law enforcement! No
Karen, law enforcement is not your "personal customer service for bullying
African-Americans" hotline.

<h3> More Than Just a Call </h3>

So why was the call to law enforcement so much more than that? If you've been
paying any attention to news at all, you'll probably recall several instances
where law enforcement have abused their power in various ways and violently
oppressed black civilians, often murdering them in what can only be described as
cold blood. This has been happening for centuries! Lynchings never went away,
they were just formalized and are now carried out by law enforcement as a means
to terrorize and pacify the population. We should never forget, law enforcement
is not there to protect and serve the population, they are there to protect the
interests of the state and the wealthy oligarchs who control and influence
society from politics to industry. When Amy made her threat to call the police,
she was not doing so out of fear, she was doing so out of hatred and spite. She
understood full well the overt biases present in law enforcement, she knew that
by telling police there was a black man threatening her, that Christian Cooper's
life and well-being would be in jeopardy. Nay, she was hoping for that outcome.
That's probably what sickens me the most; she knew the current state of affairs
and attempted to weaponize it to put someone in their place, and for what? For
asking her to leash her dog in compliance with the rules? Imagine if police had
showed up and arrested, or worse, assaulted and even possibly killed Christian.
How would Amy have felt? Honestly, she'd probably feel bad for herself, as she
is doing right now. Does she deserve to have her life ruined? Absolutely.  She
probably has not had to face consequences for any of her actions in so long that
she assumed this would be no different. While I disagree with social media
justice as a concept, this is just desserts. If you are a friend or family
member of Amy Cooper, I hope you continue to shame her and remind her of what
she did. This was not a reaction out of fear, it was a calculated series of
actions designed to leverage law enforcement biases for the purposes of
terrorizing an innocent, black, civilian. 

<h2> The George Floyd Incident </h2>

Less than 24 hours after Amy Cooper made that call, a Minneapolis police officer
murdered a black man on video. I did not have the stomach to watch a man get
slowly asphyxiated on camera by a police officer. I only watched snippets of the
video and that was mostly to confirm what commenters were saying about the
incident. Prior to the recording, the police struggled to restrain and get
George Floyd into their police vehicle. Their manhood and authority challenged
and bruised, they proceeded to put George Floyd "in his place". Handcuffed and
prostrated, the police dug their knees into his neck and he exclaimed that he
could not breathe. Rather than letting up or even acknowledging this, the
officer remained, for 10 minutes. Slowly crushing his windpipe and snuffing the
life out of him. As his life fades, he mutters "mama" with his remaining oxygen.
That broke me.

Onlookers shouted at the police to ease up but they, simple-minded, arrogant,
and quick to anger, would not be told what to do by civilians. They asserted
their authority and needlessly took the life of another man. Having seen similar
situations play out in recent years, I have no confidence that these officers
will face any serious consequences. After all, in the United States, law
enforcement is held to a lower standard than the general population. Armed
police officers are apparently more easily frightened than little school girls.
Easily triggered and overflowing with type 2 racism, these individuals occupy
many ranks of law enforcement and have embedded the institution with their
toxins. As of this writing, those officers have been fired but don't hold out
any hope for real prosecutorial action, they will most likely be transferred to
another county and endowed with the knowledge they can kill with impunity, will
likely continue enacting their agenda where they see fit. 

Apologists will say, "it's just a few bad apples", how convenient for them to
offer only the snippets of sage advice that support their agenda. The saying is,
"A few bad apples will ruin the bunch" and that is perhaps a more appropriate
summary of what is happening in law enforcement today. Law enforcement has
become militarized and developed an adversarial relation with the general
population. This "us vs. them" mentality is incredibly counter-productive to the
job of policing. More importantly, law enforcement selectively recruit less
intelligent individuals, with little individual agency, and a desire for power
and control. These phenotypes are exactly the opposite of those we want in our
police officers. Officers are expected to conform and all the "good" cops have
quit, or have been silenced and are now part of the problem. Take any other
individual and put them in the role of those Minneapolis police officers, I'd
wager that 99% of the time, George Floyd lives. 

What breaks my heart the most is how normalized all of this has become. As I get
older, American exceptionalism is no longer a good thing. American
exceptionalism, to me, highlights the vast economic inequality, the broken
for-profit healthcare system, the systemic oppression of minorities, the
political system built for the rich, by the rich. 

What happened to George Floyd isn't an anomaly, it is yet another data point in
support of sweeping changes to our law enforcement structure. One day, America
may grow the balls needed to enact these changes but after seeing armed white
men storm the state house in Lansing, MI and suffer no consequences, then see
police suppress and terrorize protestors protesting the unlawful death of George
Floyd, I feel we are farther away than ever.
