---
layout: post
title:  "Video Games and Re-kindling the Spirit"
date:   2020-05-25 11:25:39 -0400
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1> My relationship with video games </h1>

For as long as I can remember, I've been drawn to video games. Watching them,
playing them, reading about them, you name it. To me, video games have been both
a shared social experience as well as a moment for solace and reflection in
solitude. Video games have brought me hours of joy, frustration, and lesson
learned. In an effort to avoid writing a "top 10 video games" list, I will focus
on a few pivotal games throughout my life, as well as the games which occupy a
special place in my heart, even today. As an adult gamer, I am constantly trying
to re-capture that special feeling that video games brought to me as a child.
Some call it nostalgia but I am not trying to bask in the past, I'm enjoying the
present.

<h2> My first game </h2>

In truth, the first game I ever played was [Chip's
Challenge][chips-challenge-wiki] on the PC (Windows 3.1x). The game was a
top-down puzzle game which centered on a character (presumably chip) and his
need to acquire computer chips. A certain number of chips were needed before one
could progress to the next stage via a portal. Often times, the chips and portal
would be locked behind various obstacles, some static and others dynamic. Keys
and other gating mechanisms were resolved by solving puzzles. 6 year old me
struggled mightily on several levels. In addition to not knowing what computer
chips were, (I thought he was eating potato chips, prickly, gray, potato chips),
I also did not comprehend some of the mechanics of the game. Like many other
video games from the early days, instructions were sparse and one could spend an
absurd amount of time trying to figure things out, contrast this to modern day
gaming with all the hand-holding, tutorials, and instructions and it's easy so
see where some of the magic got lost. Modern platforms like Steam, Xbox, and
Playstation are embedded with all these "achievements" for all their games. Some
games have hundreds of achievements! In the old days, the only achievement was
"beat the game", and "get 100%" if the save screen shows percent completion. The
overflow of achievements has diluted their value and minimized the sense of
accomplishment. After all, how can you feel accomplished if you did not struggle
for your achievements. 

![chips-challenge](/assets/video-games/chips-challenge.jpg)

<h2> The Gameboy </h2>

My first system was the Nintendo Gameboy. When I first saw someone playing the
Gameboy, I was amazed. This small(ish) handheld device enabled you to play video
games anytime, anywhere. Sure, there was no backlight in the day but guess what,
there's an attachment for that! 

![gameboy-ff](/assets/video-games/gameboy-ff.jpg)

My first game ever was "Kirby's Dreamland". I'm not sure why I chose this game
but it's likely because the first game I saw someone else play was Kirby's
Dreamland. I eventually got "Donkey Kong Land 2", "Pokemon Red", "Legend of
Zelda - Link's Awakening", and "Pokemon Silver", and maybe some minor games that
I'm forgetting at the moment. Needless to say, the Gameboy served me well as a
trusty companion that I brought with me everywhere.  Road trips became the
ultimate excuse to whip out the Gameboy and put in some hours. Pokemon was
perhaps my most memorable Gameboy game. Pokemon capitalized on the success and
popularity of their show and their original games came out with much hype. Every
kid at school was playing it and I jumped right on the bandwagon. The pokemon
games were unique in the sense that they made two versions of the same game,
with minor differences. Mostly, these differences centered around the
availability of pokemon in each game. You could not "catch 'em all" alone; this
was the main objective of the game and to achieve it, you would need to make
some friends. Of course, the super lonely eventually just bought a second game
and system and traded with themselves (losers) but this was very much not in the
spirit of the game.     

![pokemon-first-gen](/assets/video-games/pokemon-first-gen.jpg)

<h2> The Super Nintento Entertainment System (SNES) </h2>

The SNES was the second system I ever owned. This classic beauty supported two
players and what a blessing that was. My good childhood friend got a Sega
Genesis and between the two of us, we had access to plenty of games and good
times. "Megaman X", "Donkey Kong Country 2", and "Killer Instinct" were my
favorite SNES games by far. Killer Instinct was my first exposure to fighting
games and I was instantly in love. Megaman X was incredible and I never ended up
beating Sigma (final boss in final form) until I re-visited the game in my
teens. 

![megaman-x](/assets/video-games/megaman-x.png)

<h2> The N64 </h2>

The N64 was my first introduction into 3d graphics and 3d games. I won't spend
too much on the N64 except to highlight a few games which I hold close to my
heart. "The Legend of Zelda - Ocarina of Time" will stand out as one of the
greatest games ever made. This game took me on an epic journey equipped with
epic quests, characters, stories, and music. The game was full of little nuggets
that rewarded the adventurous who dared venture off the beaten path into unknown
territory. The use of gear acquisition as a means to unlock secrets in earlier
parts of the game made the world worthwhile of constant exploration. The next
game I want to highlight is "Super Smash Bros.". I still remember the original
commercial for super smash bros and looking back on it now, it was wild. At the
time, my smash skills were pretty weak, I was a kid after-all and mostly focused
on the flashy B attacks rather than the more effective air-A attacks. Needless
to say, this game tickled my competitive nature and even today, it is a favorite
amongst my friends. We have played this game so much that our N64 controllers
have loose and wobbly joysticks. That is the sign a truly loved gaming system. 

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/K783SDTBKmg"
frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope;
picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<h2> The Xbox </h2>

When the Xbox came out, it was in tight competition with the PS2 and the
Gamecube. Having only bought Nintendo products in my life, I took the plunge and
went Xbox, taking a chance on Microsoft's first foray into the gaming console
space. Of course, 12 year old me didn't care about any of this, I just wanted to
play Halo. Halo was the first iteration of what I refer to as, "modern FPS
games". These games differed from the GoldenEye, Perfect Dark, and PC FPS games
in a few ways. For one, the use of two joysticks to control the camera and
player independently. This was likely adopted from the PC setup where the mouse
controls the camera and WASD are used to move the character but it was a welcome
change. No one liked using the "c" buttons on the N64 to look down to shoot
Oddball. While Halo and Halo 2 take the cake for most memorable Xbox games,
there was no shortage of good games for this system and while the controller was
controversial to some, I always found it be very comfortable and intuitive. Some
of my fondest memories are of connecting two TVs and two Xboxes and having 8
player Halo parties. That's something that got lost in the era of Xbox Live.
Multiplayer used to mean multiple players on one screen or in one house.
Screen cheating, while discouraged, was an accepted part of life.

![halo](/assets/video-games/halo-ce.jpg)

<h2> The Nintendo DS </h2>

I want to take a quick moment to recognize the Nintendo DS as a great handheld
gaming system. My senior of high school was full of memorable moments but
perhaps what I'll remember most fondly is playing Pokemon Diamond with my
closest friends. Bumming through school days so we could gather in someone's
living room to play Pokemon, together. Breaking off into teams of 2 to engage in
some 2v2 battles. Pokemon had evolved (heh) a lot since we were young but we (at
least I) were eager to embrace the new meta. This sytem was bought exclusively
for Pokemon but it had the ability to play Gameboy Advance games too. I always
appreciate backwards compatibility. 

![nintendo-ds-small](/assets/video-games/nintendo-ds-small.jpg)

<h2> The Xbox 360 </h2>

The natural evolution of the Xbox was the Xbox 360 and once again, I got it
mostly to play Halo 3. However, the Xbox 360 also delivered "Call of Duty 4:
Modern Warfare". COD 4 has spawned so many FPS clones in its likeness but the
original and Modern Warfare 2 were always my favorite. The Xbox 360 was the last
real console I purchased. 

![cod4](/assets/video-games/cod4.jpg)

At this point, those who know me are probably wondering where the hell all the
amazing PC games are. I must confess, when I started this post, I was going to
exclusively talk about PC games and why PC is the master race. PC's superiority
is self-evident, but that is not the point. The point is that the video game
experience is different for everyone and as long as you are enjoying it, it
doesn't matter what medium you choose. Moms playing candy crush are no different
than hardcore nerds playing Starcraft. 

Having said that...

![pcmr-logo](/assets/video-games/pcmr-logo.jpg)

<h2> The PC Master Race </h2>

The beautiful thing about PC gaming is its accessibility. When Steam first came
on the scene, no one was particularly impressed with the Valve game store as a
platform. Gamers loved Half-Life and Half-Life 2, but no one really knew if
Steam was going to be successful or not. Here we stand in 2020, where Steam has
dominated the electronic games store space so thoroughly, that competitors like
Epic Games are literally giving away hit games for free in an effort to take
back some of that user share. It's a losing battle of course, Steam has had
years upon years of sales to bolster their users' libraries and at this point,
no one can abandon Steam. Before the success of Steam, PC gaming was dominated by
pirates as it offered games for free, provided you could decipher the README.
Games were also frequently sold in CD format with CD keys tied to the purchase.
Eventually, people figured out how to generate new CD keys and piracy ran
rampant. I will not speak any more about the PCMR but want to share a video that
spawned the PCMR meme. [Subreddit][pcmr-subreddit] for anyone who wants to learn 
more.

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/P0dXtOVi2yo?start=52" frameborder="0"
allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
allowfullscreen></iframe>

And so was born the glorious PCMR meme and community, of which, I am a proud
member. And what kind of PCMR member would I be if I did not submit my build and
specs.

![pcmr-build](/assets/video-games/pcmr-build.jpg)

![pcmr-specs](/assets/video-games/pcmr-specs.jpg)

Without further ado, the following games all hold a very special place in my
heart.

<h3> Age of Empires II </h3>

This game was the first real-time strategy (RTS) game I ever played. At the
time, I frequently resorted to the cheats as the game was incredibly difficult
for a child to understand and play. Sure, I could get by, but I was nowhere near
competent and really lacked any sense of strategy. This game brought my
childhood friends and I together and is one that I continue to play to this day.
It is seeing a resurgence after being remastered and offered on Steam.

![aoe2](/assets/video-games/aoe2.png) 

<h3> Portal/Portal 2 </h3>

Making a puzzle game is difficult as you are straddling a fine line between
rewarding players for solving your puzzles, and infuriating them when they
cannot. Portal and Portal 2 seem to have found that sweet spot and introduced a
novel mechanic which can be used in many creative ways. Additionally, Portal
succeeds in "showing, not telling", a lesson many modern video games have
forgotten. The game then slowly introduces new mechanics which interplay with
previously introduced mechanics and the puzzles become progressively harder and
harder, while never seeming impossible since there are so many possible options
to try. Lastly, the games have a great sense of humor and while there isn't much
a plot or story to follow, it keeps the player entertained as they tackle trial
after trial.

![portal-signs](/assets/video-games/portal-signs.png)

<h3> Diablo II </h3>

Diablo II is a game that consumed much of my middle and high school life. People
often wonder where I learned to type so fast and my answer is always the same:
"Diablo II". On the surface, Diablo II is your typical dungeon crawler action
RPG. You control a hero with an isometric view, you gain experience which
leads to level-ups, to learn new skills and raise your stats... yada yada yada.
This is not what Diablo II was about. Diablo II had its own built-in economy
centered around loot. This loot was not in the form of loot boxes or any sort of
pay-to-play scheme, this loot could only be had the old fashioned way, killing
bosses and getting them as drops. Diablo II was so incredibly hard when it first
released that I don't think I've ever met anyone who made it through Hell on the
original game. The available items just weren't godo enough for it and even a
coordinated team would struggle. The expansion brought with it a new Act, two
new heroes, and some much needed items for the late game. However, the drop
rates for most worthwhile items was so low, players resorted to using bots to
run bosses over and over to collect items. This led to a marketplace of sorts
where trades were the order of the day, and in order to secure trades and
advertise your wares, you needed to type very very fast. Over the years, patches
have added new content to Diablo II and it has evolved in beautiful and unique
ways. The graphics may be outdated but I choose to stay awhile and listen. 

![diablo-ii](/assets/video-games/diablo-ii.jpg)

<h3> Bioshock Series </h3>

The Bioshock games brought an amazing fictional world to life and should be
considered more a work of art than just a game. Bioshock combined modern FPS
gameplay with the addition of a sci-fi power called plasmids. These plasmids
were a technology developed in the distopian city of Rapture. A city at the
bottom of the ocean that was free from the confines and restraints of the world
above. Here, scientists and free-thinkers could advance their agenda without
hindrance, what could possibly go wrong... Well as you might have guessed, the
world devolved into anarchy. I won't spoil any details about this game but
needless to say, the story is very deep and well-developed. Bioshock does a
great job of showing you the world you inhabit, giving you snippets of
information for you to piece together the smaller details about the world. The
first of the steampunk revolution, Bioshock did it better than most of its
successors and that is thanks to beautiful world design, excellent writing, and
engaging gameplay. Bioshock Infinite brought the player to a city high in the
sky, I won't go into the details of that game but as expected, it delivered in
all the same ways.

![bioshock](/assets/video-games/bioshock.jpg)

<h3> Fallout 3, 4, NV </h3>

I know that there was a Fallout 1 and Fallout 2, as well as a Fallout Tactics.
Those are not the games I'll be talking about, I will be talking about the games
that transitioned to first-person. These games all take place in a
post-apolyptic world, with scaled-down versions of post-apocalyptic cities.
Fallout 3 takes place in Washington DC, Fallout 4 takes place in Boston, and NV
takes place in Las Vegas. Basically, the world ends in nuclear war but before
that, a corporation has been building bunkers (vaults) throughout the U.S. These
vaults are filled with people as nuclear destruction becomes immiment and you,
as protagonist, play the role of a vault dweller who surfaces to take on the
world. The three games have different styles but all portray a beautifully gray
post-apocalytic world, where bottle caps are currency and irradiated humans and
super mutants are part of daily life. The political landscape is fractured and
several factions fight for supremacy. As a player, you are free to join any of
their causes, sew dissent among them, or slaughter them all. This freedom of
action, and the numerous conversation options, opens the player up to a near
limitless number of ways to play the game. I have always been a sucker for the
good guy and usually end up playing that route, but that doesn't mean I won't
blow someone's head off if I really like their gear. The developers did such a
good job recreating actual cities in this world that I spent more time walking
around Boston visiting landmarks than I did questing.

![fallout4](/assets/video-games/fallout4.jpg)

<h3> Dark Souls Series </h3>

Many know the Dark Souls games for their incredibly high level of difficulty and
very unforgiving nature. All that is true, but I really see Dark Souls as a
throwback to retro gaming, where games were truly unforgiving and beating them
was a battle of will. Dying was not a reason to be ashamed, for with each death,
a lesson was learned. Dark Souls expects you to die, a lot. If you are
uncomfortable with that, then this game is not for you, but on the brightside,
there is minimal penalty for repeatedly dying. This game, like many of the
greats, does a brilliant job of showing the player the world, and offering
snippets of information throughout for you to fill in the details. The lore is
so deep and established mostly because nothing was explicitly stated, allowing
the community to infer their own backstories based on any scraps of information
they can dig up. The map design, particularly for the first game, was arguably
the greatest ever. The world was so well connected, with many shortcuts to
previously explored areas opening up as you progress. You don't even get
fast-travel until about 40% of the way through the game. While the learning
curve is steep, I would say that anybody willing to take on the challenge and be
patient will find the game to be more rewarding than any other. The variety of
weapons and playstyles will have you creating character after character to
explore all the different builds, and with each build, the game gets easier and
easier until one day, you are flying through it, killing bosses that once took
you 100 tries with ease, and all the while, feeling invincible. 

![dark-souls](/assets/video-games/dark-souls.jpg)

The world is beautifully rendered and incredibly detailed. The
interconnectedness of it all makes exploration feel meaningful and as long as
you are cautious, that exploration is rewarded. Perhaps what makes the game so
epic is the boss fights. Each boss fight usually begins with a feeling of dread
and helplessness. The bosses, often giants 50 times your size, can smash and
kill you with one or two hits. They have an arsenal of attacks and projectiles
which you must slowly learn, and learn to counter. You will begin to identify
when they leave themselves open to attack, and when they telegraph their
attacks. Eventually, you will defeat the boss, and you will feel rewarded as you
have never felt before. The multiplayer implementation in Dark Souls is also
very unique and adds a neat layer without infringing on the core single-player
game.

<h3> Witcher 2, 3 </h3>

Many of you are now familiar with the Witcher as it has become a popular TV
series on Netflix. We should not forget that this all started with a series of
short stories, which were adapted for video games. I will not discuss the first
Witcher game as I have not completed it, the controls were kludgy and when I
discovered the series, 2 and 3 were already available. What I love about games
derived from books is that the lore and story are always top-notch. It is hard
to build a world to support a game, but it is much easier to build a game to
support a world. The world was already equipped with all manner of fantasy
elements, it would have been easy for the developers to take that content and
craft an Elder Scrolls-esque type game on top of it. Instead, they took it a
step further and actually wrote their own story on top of it. I'm sure they
consulted the author throughout the process but the end result is a game which
furthers the original story rather than just mooching off of it. These
third-person RPGs were rife with political intrigue, romance, side-quests,
monster hunting, and most importantly, the freedom to do damn near anything. The
Witcher distinguishes itself with its depth. Most games will introduce side
quests and mini-games as fodder, things to pad out their game with "x hours of
unique content" but each side-quest in the witcher games has more depth than
main quests of other games. Nothing is overlooked in these games and that
attention to detail is what makes this game special.

![witcher](/assets/video-games/witcher-meme.jpg)

<h3> Half-life and Half-life 2 </h3>

Not much to say here. Half-life was the original PC FPS game and Gordon Freeman
the original hero. When I first played Half-life, I was young and got stuck in
various places. Eventually, I got stuck fighting that stupid Kraken-like monster
and could not get past it. In my early 20's, I downloaded Half-Life:Source, a
re-master of sorts, and resolved to beat the game. I realized that the monster
was sensitive to sound, and you could distract it by throwing a grenade, then
running while it pecked away at your grenade's explosion, what an idiot... What
I also discovered was that I had barely scratched the surface of this game.
Eventually, I made my way to alien planets, armed myself with alien weaponry,
and proceeded to go ham all over those alients. By this point, I had already
played and beaten Half-Life 2 at this point but it in no way diminished the
excitement of beating Half-Life. I wouldn't hold my breathe for Half-Life 3,
Valve is too busy counting their money these days to make games.

![half-life](/assets/video-games/half-life.jpg)

<h3> Mass Effect Series </h3>

This is turning into a massive blog post but when it comes to video games, it
was hard enough for me to narrow it down to this list, and I could easily spend
another 5-6 posts on the topic. The Mass Effect series was my first introduction
to Bioware. Bioware prides themselves on player choice as a key component of
their games. Players choose and ultimately, those choices manifest themselves
later on in the game. For Mass Effect, those choices ultimately determine who
your romantic interests are, and what your relationship with your crew will be
like. In addition to the stellar gameplay, Mass Effect had great writing and
voice acting accompanying it, making your crew feel authentic and providing you
with a sense of comradery. You could only take 2 characters on any given mission
with you so everyone always has their favorites. You would ideally pick your
crew to complement your own class and abilities but anyone who didn't use Grunt
and Mordin are savages. Honestly, Grunt was such a tank and Mordin's commentary
is hiliarious.

![mass-effect](/assets/video-games/mass-effect.jpg)

<h3> Civ 5 </h3>

Civilization 5 is a turn-based strategy game and that genre gets its own
section. The reason I highlight this game here is that is a go-to for me and my
wife. We have put close to 300 hours into this game and it has made our marriage
stronger. It is a low-stress, low-pressure game, with many options and
playstyles to explore. Of course, my wife and I always go militaristic with a
"Domination" victory. I have never won using any of the other methods and I
honestly don't even know how to do a "Cultural" victory, whatever that means.
All that aside, the game is a lot of fun and perfect for couples who want to
start something new together.

![civ5](/assets/video-games/civ-5.jpg)

<h3> Turn-Based Strategy Games </h3>

There are many that fall into this category and rather than enumerate them
individually, I would highlight the genre as one of my favorites. This is fairly
recent as I have traditionally preferred more fast-paced games. However, in my
old age, I am finding less time to keep my skills sharp. Instead, I rely more on
my mind than anything else, and I find this genre of game to be particularly
good at that. I am currently playing "Valkyria Chronicles 4", a JRPG of sorts.
Yes, JRPGs can be verbose and feel like watching a short movie, nevertheless,
the turn-based tactical and strategic elements in the gameplay make sitting
through their film class worthwhile. 

![valkyria](/assets/video-games/valkyria.jpg)

<h3> Dota and Dota 2 </h3>

If every game had a running clock on the total hours spent playing, Dota and
Dota 2 would be ranked number 1. Dota is what is now known as a MOBA, or
multiplayer online battle arena, but don't be fooled, Dota is the original MOBA.
Dota was a MOBA before MOBAs were a thing, and since I've exhausted my daily
quota of MOBA usage, I will no longer use that term. Dota began its life as a
humble custom game in Warcraft 3. Blizzard fanboys fondly recall the days of UMS
(use map settings) games in Starcraft. Back before tower defense was a thing, we
had turret defense, we had tug of war, we had hydra ranchers, and most
importantly, we had Dota. Dota featured several of the hero sprites from
Warcraft 3, equipped with several of the hero skills and abilities. It adopted
the hero level-up system and system of experience as well. Dota pits two teams
of 5 human players, each controlling a hero, against each other. Heroes are
broken up into melee or ranged, can be Strength, Agility, or Intelligence based,
and usually fit a role as either a support or a core hero. I know, this is a
lot, but we're almost done. Each team has a base they must defend from the other
team, this base produces waves of AI-controlled units which move down lanes from
your base to your opponent's. The waves of units are known as "creeps" and they
clash into one another, here is where the battle lines form. The goal is to
destroy the other players base, to do so, you will get gold by killing creep or
enemy heroes (known as farming), then buy items to boost your powers, and
finally push into their base and destroy it. This game, as described, is what a
modern MOBA is. I have not played Dota 2 in several years, the reason being that
I do not have the time and energy to keep up with the game. The game is
constantly evolving as IceFrog (maker of Dota) originally intended. New updates,
new heroes, large changes to gameplay keep the meta interesting but make it
difficult for old heads like myself to keep up. I will always remember the game
fondly but playing pubs (game with all strangers) were some of the more
frustrating and toxic moments. The learning curve is steep so expect to get
flamed constantly when you first start. Keep your head down, and keep playing,
the game gets better.

![dota](/assets/video-games/dota.png)

Perhaps the best illustration of the addictive nature of this game is when my
college room mate first saw me playing. It was freshman year and my room mate
was a stranger. We got along well enough but didn't have many shared interests.
He would frequently see me playing Dota (old school Warcraft 3 mod) and he got
interested. I told him it was a custom game within in WC3 and soon enough, he
had bought the game and expansion just to play Dota. He hit that learning curve
head-on and eventually became passable with Sandking. We would play together
often and I would carry him as best I could. I probably raged at him more than
he deserved but the fact I cared that much at all shows the emotional investment
this game demands. I wonder if he still plays today...

<h3> Starcraft and Starcraft 2 </h3>

I've saved the best for last but won't spend too much time on it. I intend to
write about Starcraft in the near future so I'll be brief. I first played
Starcraft and Broodwar when I was 10. I stayed at a sleep over at my church and
a lot of the older kids were having a LAN party and mostly playing two games. In
one camp were the Counterstrike players and in the other, the Starcraft players.
My friend at the time had played Starcraft before and so we hovered towards that
camp to watch them play. We stayed up all night watching Starcraft and when they
asked if I wanted a copy, I was ecstatic. They burned the CD, supplied me with a
key, and next thing I knew, I was playing Starcraft. I played the campaigns, did
some custom games, but I never knew how bad I really was at the game. Concepts
like build orders, macro, micro, didn't really exist to me. Timing and speed
were also lost concepts. I had no idea there was a competitive scene and didn't 
truly understandd the ridiculously high skill ceiling of this game. Below is a
video of a professional Zerg player, he is playing so incredibly fast and with
such precision, but this is only what you see him do, physically. In his head,
he is keeping track of his army, his economy, the enemy's army and position. 

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WHcl6Cs1FAM?start=724" frameborder="0"
allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
allowfullscreen></iframe>

The velocity of a Starcraft game is so immense that short 10 minute games feel like
they span entire lifetimes, where armies are raised, battles are won and lost,
and one player has bested another. Playing a 1v1 Starcraft is truly a battle
between two individuals, their individual skill levels, and their wiles. The
best player does not always win as there are "cheesy" strategies for besting any
foe. Preparation and information are vital to the game as a knowledgeable and
skilled player will scout their opponents and respond accordingly. When
Starcraft 2 released, I picked up the game hoping for a nostaglic trip down
memory lane. What I got was a reality check, this game is insane and I was not
very good. I continued to play in the hopes of improving but playing the
Starcraft 2 ladder is one of the most grueling experiences ever. Your emotional
state will fluctuate between elation from a hard fought won, to anger over an
unnecesary loss to a lesser opponent using a cheesy build. That being said,
those wins are an invigorating experience that cannot be replicated elsewhere.
The mental and physiological changes that this game induces are unique and the
neurotransmitters that are released after a hard-fought win are some good drugs. 

![sc2](/assets/video-games/sc2.jpg)

The premise of the game is actually quite simple. You pick one of three races,
you start with a base and some workers, the workers gather resources, or which
there are two types, and you use the resources to make other buildings, other
units, and eventually you fight your opponents and try to destroy their bases.
The three races consist of a bug-like hivemind race, called the Zerg, a human
colonial species consisting of criminals (think Australia), called the Terran,
and a futuristic psionic species called the Protoss. The Protoss and Zerg are
creations of another advanced species known as the Xel'Naga. The Zerg overmind
was too strong for the Xel'Naga to control and so the story begins. Although the
campaigns, story, and lore are all amazing, they serve only as embellishments to
the core gameplay. 

![sc2-meme](/assets/video-games/sc2-meme.jpeg)

<h2> Wrap Up </h2>

And there you have it, my longest blog post to date and what an appropriate
topic for it. I could write about video games ad nauseum but this will have to
do for today. There are many other games that I've loved that did not get
featured in this post, it does not mean they are not worthy, additionally, I
have not played every game under the sun so I'm sure there are many that I've
missed. The beauty is that I have the rest of my life to experience them.

[chips-challenge-wiki]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chip%27s_Challenge
[pcmr-subreddit]: https://www.reddit.com/r/pcmasterrace/
